Of course, a thesis statement cant stand alone as an 
argument. You will need to give reasons to back up your 
basic claim throughout your essay. For example, if your 
thesis statement is that the Canadian parliamentary system 
is not working well, your reasons may be expressed as, "The 
Canadian parliamentary system is not working well because 
too much power is concentrated in the hands of the Prime 
Minister, because it can easily result in the election of 
unstable minority governments, and because it discourages 
cooperation among political parties." State these reasons 
in the order that you will state them in the essay so that 
the reader will have a good idea of the essays flow and 
structure.

An essay is not a novel: in an academic paper, its ok to 
spoil the ending, in fact its necessary. Every main 
argument should be referenced in the introduction so that 
the reader is not confused when he or she reads further. 
Leave most of the details--such as examples, quotes, and 
supporting data--for the body paragraphs, but make sure 
that the argument is laid out from the very beginning.

The thesis statement is the anchor and foundation of any 
good paper. With a weak thesis also comes a weak overall 
essay, so crafting a strong and effective thesis is 
essential. The thesis statement should clearly state the 
author's claim and therefore guide the development of the 
entire paper. Thesis statements should strongly assert the 
topic in a way that helps to unify the paper. While 
instructors have varying requirements, most agree upon a 
few 
 
expository essay is like a human 
body, then the thesis statement is the skeleton. In the 
same way that your skeleton supports and holds up your 
body, your thesis statement holds up your essay. To new 
writers, the long process of developing a good thesis 
statement can seem impossible and unnecessary, but 
experienced writers know that this preparation can make or 
break an essay.
